# TopicVI-reproduce

This repository contains the code to reproduce the results of the TopicVI paper by Cai et al.. 

Main code is in the `evaluate` directory, which contains the scripts to reproduce the results of the paper. The files starts with `benchmarking` contains the code to reproduce the benchmarking results of TopicVI against other models. 

The `external` folder contains the code to reproduce the results of the external models, such as MuVI, DcjComm, pyCogaps, and etc., which may have difference with the original implementation due to the benchmarking setting, requirements, data processing and other factors.

Correspondence of the paper: zhanzhou@zju.edu.cn

## Requirements

Common requirements:
- pandas
- scanpy[leiden]
- numpy
- scipy
- seaborn
- tqdm
- matplotlib

### TopicVI

- scvi-tools>=1.2
- flax>=0.8
- geomloss
- scikit-misc
- torch>=2.0


### Benchmarking

- scib
- scib_metrics


DcjComm 

- R 4.0 or higher
- R packages: Matrix, RSpectra (Required by the DcjComm)


pyCogaps

- you should install the pyCogaps package from the original repository (github.com:FertigLab/pycogaps.git)
- GCC 14 or higher

MuVI
- tensordict
- kneed
- tabulate

Other models that are published in pypi or conda:

- scGPT
- pyliger
- ExpiMap (scarches)

### Other analysis

- gseapy
- lifelines
- statsmodels
- Spanve


## Data availability

The PBMC10k dataset was collected and processed using the scVI Python package 19 and can be accessed via the code scvi.data.pbmc_dataset(). The PBMC68k dataset was originally generated by Zheng et al. and processed by Tamim et al. The filtered and preprocessed h5ad file is available for download from Zenodo (https://zenodo.org/records/3357167). The Human Lung Cell Atlas (HLCA) 23 core data is publicly available through cellxgene (https://cellxgene.cziscience.com/collections/6f6d381a-7701-4781-935c-db10d30de293). The drug-perturbed GBM data (ZhaoSims2021) was originally generated by Zhao et al. and subsequently processed by the scPerturb project, available at https://zenodo.org/record/7041849/files/ZhaoSims2021.h5ad. The spatial transcriptome dataset of human frontal cortex is deposited in the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus database under accession GSE233208. The TCGA-GBM bulk RNA sequencing preprocessed data were obtained from the UCSC Xena browser (https://xenabrowser.net/datapages/EB++AdjustPANCAN_IlluminaHiSeq_RNASeqV2.geneExp.xena, version 2016-12-29).